# <p align="center">Articles  | To learn by heart </p>

<br>

### <p align="center">Claude Shannon</p>


Claude Elwood Shannon is an American electrical engineer and mathematician. He is considered to be “the father of information theory”. Shannon was born in 1916 and died in 2001. After graduating from the University of Michigan he worked at the Massachusetts Institute of technology where he worked on a differential analyzer that was an analog computer. He proved that Boolean algebra and binary arithmetic could be used to simplify the arrangement of the electromechanical relays, and that it should be possible to use arrangements of relays to solve Boolean algebra problems. Shannon’s work became the foundation of practical digital circuit design. During the Second World War he worked on fire-control systems and cryptography. But he introduced the problem of fire control as a special case of transmission, manipulation and utilization of intelligence. Thus it was the beginning of the information age. But the most famous work by Shannon was “A Mathematical Theory of Communication”. This work focuses on the problem of how best to encode the information a sender wants to transmit. Shannon developed information entropy as a measure for the uncertainty in a message, and so we may say that he invented the field of information theory. He also made a major contribution to the development of a mathematical theory of cryptography with his paper “Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems” where he proved that all theoretically unbreakable ciphers must have the same requirements as the one-time pad. He is also credited with the introduction of Sampling Theory, which is concerned with representing a continuous-time signal from a discrete set of samples. This theory was essential in enabling telecommunications to move from analog to digital transmissions systems.

---

### <p align="center">Irkutsk State University </p>


Irkutsk State University was founded in 1918. It was one of the first educational establishments in Eastern Siberia.At that time there were only two faculties at the University. Later the University grew and developed. Its structure was changed several times. Now there are 9 faculties 6 institutes at the University. But in spite of all these changes the University has remained a classical University. That's why different courses at the University are intended to give a thorough grounding in the principles of a particular science. There are opportunities to study different subjects and branches of science and to consider the subjects in their wider social contexts. Skills of interpretation and logical reasoning are developed and students are encouraged to consider broader questions such as political, social, and environmental urgent problems. According to preference students may develop their interest in a particular area of science by writing course papers. A lot of candidates and doctors of sciences teach at the University. They also carry out research in different fields of science. There are three research Institutes at the University. Students have an opportunity to do research at different laboratories and Students' Scientific Societies. So we may say that the courses are intended to make graduates efficient specialists in different areas of science and technology. Educational level at the University is rather high and many enterprises, commercial organizations, secondary and higher schools are eager to hire its graduates.

---


### <p align="center">Mathematics as a Science</p>

Mathematics is often defined as the study of quantity, magnitude, and relations of numbers or symbols. It embraces the subjects of arithmetic, geometry, algebra, calculus, probability, statistics, and many other special areas of research.
There are two major divisions of mathematics: pure and applied. Pure mathematics investigates the subject solely for its theoretical interest. Applied mathematics develops tools and techniques for solving specific problems of business and engineering or for highly theoretical applications in the sciences. Mathematics is pervasive throughout modern life. Baking a cake or building a house involves the use of numbers, geometry, measures, and space. The design of precision instruments, the development of new technologies, and advanced computers all use more technical mathematics. Twenty-first-century mathematics is highly specialized and abstract. The advance of set theory and discoveries involving infinite sets, transfinite numbers, and purely logical paradoxes caused much concern as to the foundations of mathematics. In addition to purely theoretical developments, devices such as high-speed computers influenced both the content and the teaching of mathematics. Among the areas of mathematical research that were developed in the 20th century are abstract algebra, non-Euclidean geometry, abstract analysis, mathematical logic, and the foundations of mathematics.
But in general we may say that mathematics is the language of science.

